# Fitness Tracker Case Study Read Me First
# Case Study 1 - Bellabeat Wellness Company
The full analysis and relevant files are found on [Github](https://github.com/deep-thinks-tech/data-analytics-case-studies/tree/main/001.fitness-app-case-study). The R files are also available on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/deepajc/fitness-tracker-case-study-in-r).

## Objective - Help Bellabeat Improve Their Marketing Strategy

The analysis follows the **6 steps of the Data Analysis process** - Ask, Prepare, Process, Analyze, Share and Act.

### 1-Ask - Defining the question
In this phase, we define the problem/hypothesis, determine what metrics to use, and define the success factors.

#### 1.0-Background

Bellabeat is a manufacturer of health focused smart products for women since 2013. Empowering women with knowledge about their own health and habits, Bellabeat has grown rapidly and quickly positioned itself as a tech driven wellness company for females.
The co-founder and Chief Creative Officer, Urška Sršen is confident that an analysis of non-Bellabeat consumer data (ie. FitBit fitness tracker usage data) would reveal more opportunities for growth.

#### 1.1-Business Task

Analyze FitBit fitness tracker data to gain insights into how consumers are using the FitBit app and discover trends for Bellabeat marketing strategy.

#### 1.2-Questions to Find Answers to

1. Problem to solve - What should be the marketing strategy of Bellabeat to attract more customers to use its fitness app effectively?

2. Metrics to use - Correlation between number of mins logged on the app and calories burned, number of mins logged and day logged, distance covered and day
Descriptive analysis - What are the trends identified?

3. Success criteria - A prescriptive analysis. How could these trends be used to influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?

#### 1.3-Deliverables
1. A clear summary of the business task
2. A description of all data sources used
3. Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data
4. A summary of analysis
5. Supporting visualizations and key findings
6. High-level content recommendations based on the analysis
7. A slide deck -
   + Slide 1 - Executive Summary
   + Finding or Big Reveal
   + Key Metrics excavated from data
   + Recommendations
   + Subsequent slides explain the three points mentioned above in detail
   + Also share spreadsheet and SQL queries relevant to the analysis

#### 1.4-Key Stakeholders
* Urška Sršen: Bellabeat’s co founder and Chief Creative Officer
* Sando Mur: Mathematician, Bellabeat’s co founder and key member of the Bellabeat executive team
* Bellabeat marketing analytics team: A team of data analysts guiding Bellabeat’s marketing strategy.

---


### 2-Prepare - Collecting the data
* Data Location - Publicly available [Kaggle data set](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit) containing 18 csv files
* Data Behavior
  + Third party data - generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk 
  + Data Timestamp - between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. 
  + Other influencing factors -
    + Only 30 eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring. Not a huge data sample
    + Variation between output represents use of different types of Fitbit trackers and individual tracking behaviors / preferences
  + Data Organization - by session ID and activity date
  + Data Credibility (ROCCC)
    + Reliable - Low. The data is obtained from third party - a survey  via Amazon Mechanical Turk
    + Original - Low. Third party data
    + Comprehensive - Medium. Has relevant data to assess the product usage
    + Current - Low. Data is 7 years old
    + Cited - Low. Third party data. Integrity or accuracy unconfirmed and difficult to determine
* Licensing, privacy, security, and accessibility
  + License - CC0: Public Domain
  + Privacy - No user PII captured in the source data
* Data and Tool selected
  + Data - dailyActivity_merged
  + Tools - R, Spreadsheet (MS Excel), Tableau, BigQuery

---

### 3-Process - Cleaning the data

We are using multiple tools to clean the data.
* The **R version** is available on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/deepajc/fitness-tracker-case-study-in-r)
* Spreadsheet Version
    + Open dailyActivity_merged.csv file and save it as dailyActivity_merged.xlsx
    + Next steps are
        1. Observe and familarize with the values 
        2. Check for nulls, duplicates, and missing values
        3. Perform sanity check
    + Observations
        1. There are 940 rows and 15 columns
        2. No null values
        3. The data type of ActivityDate column is General and not date
        4. There are 33 unique IDs, instead of 30 unique IDs as expected from 30 fitness tracker users.
    + Data Manipulations done
        1. Changed the data type of ActivityDate to date. The dates were in date (English UK) and in text format. Used "Text to Columns > Delimited > > Column data format > Date > DMY" and Format Cells > Date > English UK
        2. Changed the column names for consistency
        3. Added total_mins column to add up all mins related columns
        4. Using conditional formating checked if total mins logged is greater than 1440 (did some one log time for more than 24 hours in a day)
        5. Added total_hrs column to convert total_mins to hours
        6. Added day_of_week column and used text(<activity_date>,"dddd") formula to determine the day corresponding to activity date
  
---
### 4-Analyze - Analyzing the data

  *** Observations in the spreadsheet version were same as in the R version mentioned earlier ***

---

### 5-Share - Visualizing & Sharing your results

* R version - [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/deepajc/fitness-tracker-case-study-in-r)
* Spreadsheet version - Refer to histogram, scatter plots, and pie chart in the visualization sheet of source-data > dailyactivities_merged.xlsx
* Tableau version - [Tableau](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/deepa.r8394/viz/FitnessTrackerAnalysis_16897507840290/FitnessTrackerAnalysis#1)


